## [link up a level../](../)

# Preface

This is a teaching action book.  Each chapter or section has actions, for both a teacher and a student.  If a teacher leads a student through the whole book carefully the student should then after a little practice be prepared to act as the teacher when teaching another person as the student and so on.  This is a labor intensive process for both parties, and it will in many cases make sense for the time of the teacher to be compensated by the student as a "pay it forward" system, where the student then becomes the teacher and teachers others to use the system for payment.  

In general, we want the products of this knowledge to have intrinsic value on top of knowledge for its own sake. That is, learning and using this knowledge leads to the ability to both produce value to the people around you without money but also real economic benefit that can be turned into cash flow to survive in our current economic system.

So in general each section will have a "teacher action" and "student action".  In the beginning of the book student actions will be very simple, and will get increasingly complex through the course of the book.  By the end, the student is able to edit and copy every part of the system, and should in principle not need the teacher to propagate the system.

Furthermore, the learners and teachers are going to often be teams or "parties", groups of people who play specific roles but all work together.  When a team is learning, if someone takes on a role, say the person who's an expert in some kind of code, or the person who is the most comfortable with a paintbrush or the person who is most familiar with the local streams, the others will share and observe but need not repeat whatever specific technical skill the expert has learned.  Thus, by having specialization within a learning group, the *overall group* will be able to accomplish much more than would be possible for any one person or for a group who, as in conventional school, all have to learn each thing.  

Part of the process of spreading Geometron will be to recruit teams of people who can join together and go through the whole book, copying each thing, selecting people for the right contrast of skills(some more artistic, some more outdoor/action oriented, some more computer oriented, some more into creating social connections, etc..  A team of people who learn the system together can then operate it together for profit, including getting paid to train teams in the system.  A fully trained *team* with specialization can teach an individual who wants to learn the whole system, or a group who wants to all do the whole thing.  Creating and maintaining teams is a key element of the Path of Geometron, the philosophy which defines how we live our lives in this system discussed later in this work.
   