[../](../)

# Factory

The factory is the information structure of production of useful goods and services.  In the world of global information networks, buildings with machines in them are no longer really the "means of production".  Rather, the means of production are the information structures which define the flows of information, energy, materials, and labor which create value.  This might very well be a building filled with machines that are used to fabricate things, in the conventional sense of the word "factory" but in general it is going to be something much more ephemeral.  


The "factory" in our cosmology is media-first.  That is, it is primarily defined by the media which documents it.  That media is, like all media in our system, self-replicating.  Thus a factory is really a self-replicating system for making things.  The first things we'll deploy in this system will be more media: self-replicating media which makes more media.  First is the digital media, and then the physical media, which define markers, signs, cards, maps, books etc. which point to various bits of digital media.  Then the next level up from that is practical objects which serve some function like shelter, storage, furniture or simple machines, and we'll build media which fully document the endless replication of those things.  In this work we will then point to the ultimate goal of such factories, which is industrial machines which can make a wide range of useful products.  If you can create self-replicating digital media which replicates self-replicating physical media, which combines to replicate machines which can create a flow of value, that can totally change the world. 

One thing a sustainable cosmology needs is a way to exist in the world as we find it today as well as a path to exist in the world as it will exist after the coming intersecting crises of the current world accelerate.  To this end, we need to build industrial production which can generate revenue with almost no up front cost at all in the existing economic system, and which also create objects which are of intrinsic value independent of the money system.  To both of these ends, what we need are machines which can be built using entirely materials bought cheaply online and donated by others in the network which take as feedstock "trash" of one kind or another and produce things of intrinsic value.  In this work we will present a couple of these, and will attempt to document them in enough detail that readers can replicate the entire thing and immediately start to sell things and make money, then use that money to spread the network by buying more infrastucture and training others.  Note that for this to propagate it does not need to make a *lot* of money or be *very* useful.  It just has to have the right sign: each stage as it propagates has to make more money and be more useful and engage more people than the one before it.  As with life, organic media either grows or dies and if it grows at all, the power of the exponential can truly shake the Universe in a short time.


The Factory concept can be thought of as having several primary directions to consider.  First of all, the factory is just the flow of new elements made in the various sections of this book, the things we can make *right now*.  Second of all, there are the things we want to make for money as we s

