## [link up a level../](../)

# Flow Economics

Capitalism tends to consume other systems because it increases entropy, creates more information flow and structure than is possible with a centralized economy.  The system that will in turn consume capitalism will add further entropy by creating further complexity.  This happens by creating media which carries information along with in which how it flows from one node to another in the network is fundamental to the nature of that thing.  The potential number of flows of thing along paths from one node to another vastly exceeds the number of possible things. And both of these vastly exceed the complexity of reducing all things to numbers.  Increased complexity, increased entropy, this is the system which can consume its predecessor.  

Capitalism derives much of its power from the number of choices available for a given unit of money.  For example a person with a given amount of money, say 100 dollars, in a modern city with a smart phone can turn that money into a vast number of possible goods or services.  That number is more vast than it would have been at any time in history, and this is in large part to the way that the universal language of money in a free market system has connected so many people.  However, for all this power, the capitalist system also destroys a lot of information.  Supply chains structure represents information about a complex network of linked nodes, and this is typically hidden from view in capitalism, where only price is what matters. If we attempt to calculate all the possible paths that goods ad services can flow through a network, we find that as with any computations of network paths, the size of the universe of possible states explodes in a way that is exponentially greater than the simple number of things one can buy at a given price. Thus a system in which paths through networks matter has much greater freedom than one which only uses price.  Just as a vast number of possible things one can buy at a given price increases entropy and tends to consume older systems that don't have this freedom, it is reasonable to expect that systems which add topological information(information about how things are connected) will add vastly, unimaginably, greater amounts of freedom/entropy to the system an will in turn consume the prices based economics.  

While it seems *reasonable* theoretically that a mathematical shift to a system with more degrees of freedom will be preferable, we need to look more closely at specifics in order to really have a believable picture in our minds of what a system would look like that replaces money.  First of all, numerical units of value will not go away, this is not replacing money in that it will serve the same purpose and money will disappear, rather it is replacing money as the *primary* form of information in our economic network.  A thing still has units of mass, energy, and subjective human value which can be turned into a price.  Also, the existing money and price system is likely to live on for a very long time just based on momentum so we have to imagine that the system we are building will coexist peacefully with that.  

We must also examine specifically how the use of money as it exists today simply cannot work in a world with self-replicating zero cost technology. It doesn't matter if we want prices and money to continue they will make less and less sense to use as more and more things become organic media, and if we don't meet that challenge head on it will continue to just break more and more segments of society(primarily by accelerating inequality and the destruction of the natural world). 

Let us examine the purchase of an Arduino board today versus the acquisition of an equivalent object in the post capitalist system.  Right now an Arduino board has a price.  If I have enough money I can spend that money to get the Arduino, which I now "own".  I have information which could be used to make more Arduino boards, making it much closer to organic media than most consumer products.  However this all ignores the supply chain.  The information describing how to make an Arduino board has a "bill of materials", the most important element of which is the microprocessor itself which the Arduino is built around. We can replicate the Arduino factory by using open source designs to make our own Arduino factory, and even replicate the factory that makes the microprocessors, but there is always an externalized environmental and social cost we ignore, about which information is generally destroyed.  Extremely special sand must be destructively mined and melted down with numerous mined toxic chemicals to build the actual chips from scratch.  

In the first state of the fully metabolized version of the Arduino we have a feed of various waste streams from the existing industrial system which create the whole artifact. The information required to do this is embedded in the final artifact, which includes the contact information and background of the actual people who did the labor of creating the thing. This allows new users of the thing to have the personal connections required to actually learn the skills required to replicate the labor and also find the materials with no spending of money and no mining.  All this is physically embedded in media which is physically linked to the artifact, in a well documented format which is easy for ubiquitous machines to read, and which also has all the information required for a new user to figure out how to decode it.  For example, the chip might be a modification of the core microprocessor in an old version of a mobile phone of which there are known to be many 100's of millions available and which now have zero value to the existing industrial system as they are totally obsolete.  The encoded information would include all this background information on the phones, reverse engineering data, where those phones came from, and a huge depth of information about them.  Also, it would contain information about how these chips can be replaced by some other waste chip in the future, as well as how to close loops further by using even further degraded silicon technology which is more damaged and older, with more labor to bring more broken hardware back from the dead, shinning a light on a path to the future where loops can be forever closed, and degraded semiconductor technology can be fully recycled with zero loss of materials, leading to a zero mining industry.  

As with other types of organic media, the artifacts made in the system described here are *all* self-replicating and self-documenting.  This is a critical difference between them and existing artifacts in today's extractive system.  By reducing an entire artifact to the agreed upon price and the designated current owner, all the sub-systems are just brought along for the ride, and the information associated with them is often non existant in the final thing.  Whereas with fractal documentation at each level and each sub system of a given larger system, each thing can be replicated, and that allows future workers to both replicate the whole by replicating the parts and to replace parts with better parts, and evolve the corresponding media in a modular way.  

And note that the new technology still contains the ability to act like the old as a perfect replacement.  One can still make an Arduino board with identical functionlity to the existing one and sell it for the same price to a new owner who does the same thing with it.  But we have *added* vast seas of information which did not exist at all in the current system.  The amount of new information is *exponentially* greater than the amount of information contained in the existing technology.  If we compare how this works to how the old Arduino works, the difference in potential flows is truly staggering.  Now we can buy a Arduino UNO from any of a few vendors, all of which are essentially identical and all of which are based on mining driven extractive manufacturing.  Then we use it until it breaks or some catastrophic event makes it no longer relevant and it goes to a land fill.  But that's it, it can only replicate by getting other people to repeat the same monetary transaction we did to acquire it from the factory.  In the new system, we can use a single unit of the Arduino board to build an entire factory of self replicating parts which not only make huge numbers of boards, but can be evolved to make vast numbers of other related products.  One board can be the seed that grows an entire industrial *system*!  And each of the output artifacts from that system can also be the seed that repeats this process.  

Another important distinction of organic media based topological industry is what happens as growth reaches its limits.  While the system grows it consumes waste and produces things of monetary value which allow it to naturally grow and nurture workers.   But as it starts to saturate, to run out of new people to reach who have not been exposed to it, the contrast with existing economic systems become sharp.  In today's economic systems, growth must continue forever or the system dies, people lose jobs, companies collapse etc. The only way to stop this is to keep finding new systems to exploit in exponentially growing ways.  However in a topological system, as the system matures and incorporates a larger and larger fraction of humanity it becomes possible to have more and more closed loops.  As these loops close, growth in the sense of just adding more nodes and more volume is not needed.  Instead the number of paths can grow in an existing network, without increasing either the number of nodes or the total flow--just the *complexity* of the network flow.  This solves the age old problem of how to continue *progress* in the sense of increasing human welfare without the exponential growth of simple energy and materials based flows that are so destructive in our current system. When a system using organic media based topological economics reaches the limits of *physical* growth, we see what we've always been promised but has never been delivered come to pass: hours of work and amount of material used drop down over time and life actually becomes easier, without relying on the current notions of "work" or "energy" or "mass" but on much more subtle shifts in network connectivity information.  This is the path to solving another fundamental puzzle of modern economic life: how in our current system information technology has caused us all to work even harder, not less hard, and to increase inequality and oppression due to poverty rather than alleviate it.  

How does this work?  Things in the Universe of Things already described here flow around from person to person. This in a very literal physical sense is what replaces money.  Money is just a number.  Things flowing from one person to another vastly increase the number of degrees of freedom.  

Decks of cards, where cards represent actions and other things can be carried by everyone, and exchanged. Exchanges lead to replication of things, some of which are actions. Cards are constantly replicated, but can also be exchanged for physical things or actions. Copying of cards and exchange live in parallel.  Unlike money which can only be created by central banks or governments or mines, thing cards can be created from nothing, and can constantly replicate and expand exponentially.  If money expands exponentially and is copied without central control it leads to "inflation", in which the effective value of the currency drops.  This is not true of thing cards.  They are flow of information in a network, and like all networked structures, the larger the network grows the more valuable each element of it is.  A pile of cards on the floor of my room today have zero value.  One action card to barter for some food in a huge network of people who all participate in the system can give you a meal for just a card with the right symbols on it--just knowing enough to copy that card with those symbols will be enough to live on in a huge powerful network of participants who do all the things needed to create a functioning society.