[link up a level../](../)


# Organic Media

Organic media is media which has the most fundamental property of living things: self-replication.  As with living things, organic media does not spontaneously copy itself in a vacuum.  In general, living things are part of ecosystems, and rely on numerous other living things to replicate and to survive.  Often collections of living things can only replicate when they're all connected together, as with the numerous organisms that make up a forest which all rely on the existence of the whole forest ecosystem not only to reproduce but to simply exist without dying.  

Before discussing the specifics of the organic media described here, we must distinguish it from viral media.  Viral media replicates the content, but has a host, which remains fixed.  A meme shared on a centralized commercial social media platform functions like a virus: it can replicate, but the substrate on which the information replicates itself remaining fixed.  No matter how many times a meme is shared on a social media site, the site itself is not replicated: no new web server is populated with a new instance of social media software. On the contrary, for profit social media corporations behave like heavily diseased apex predators, trying to kill any other social media that they see, all while being constantly infected by viral information that spreads very rapidly and often with negative consequences.  Organic media involves copying the media itself.  Thus for instance mix and demo tapes in the age of analog tapes were organic media: they were replicated, and the whole physical media was copied. Also like living things they evolved over time, leading to better and better products over time.  

Another example of organic media is religious scripture.  Scripture represents texts which describe the fundamental cosmology of a group of people with shared beliefs.  Those who hold that set of beliefs always have as part of their belief system some type of replication of the physical scripture.  Furthermore, many religions have systems of belief in which they spread their scriptures to new groups of people who will then adopt their system of belief and also replicate the scripture.  Those groups of people reproduce themselves in the way people do, like all living things, and they pass their beliefs on to their children.  Those children grow up and copy the scripture.  In the time before the printing press copying an entire book was extremely labor intensive and copying it with no errors was very difficult.  By creating a world view in which each word is of cosmic value to the readers, religious scripture was uniquely powerful in its ability to accurately replicate itself.  Also, religion as organic media is a powerful metaphor since it copies a whole ecosystem of people, documents, buildings, culture, etc., just as living things always replicate as part of some larger ecosystem of other living things.

A final example of organic media is the modern branded consumer product.  A can of soft drink with a logo on it replicates itself by inducing those who drink it to find that log on a vending machine and buy more, putting money into the machine which initiates a long chain of events leading to more manufacturing of cans of beverage, more advertising, etc.  It is this self-replicating branded product that we wish to modify into the organic media which can replicate without a centralized corporation to make them.

The organic media we will deal with here are both self replicating physical media and self-replicating digital media.  In some loose sense this is like the can of soda that tells you how to buy more cans of soda.  There is a key difference from the can of soda however.  In the soda can from a company, we must put money into the system to initiate replication.  Our involvement as a new participant in the network of replication is as a consumer.  We must already have money from some other productive process in order to engage.  However, with the organic media we will present in this work, this is not the case.  We will build media which assumes a flow of people and things that already exist, and which can create media which replicates by harnessing that which already exists, without assuming we invest money and that that money flows to a centralized corporation.  

At its most basic level we can imagine the cardboard sign asking for money.  You can find cardboard and a marker lying around on the ground, write a sign asking for money, someone will give you money, and you can buy more markers and cardboard and spread that.  While somewhat depressing and not a great source of income, this is indeed a primitive example of the kind of self replicating media we'll be documenting here.  

Let us now imagine a more sophisticated example of the same basic format as the cardboard sign asking for money.  Imagine that we have a robot made from motors found in the trash which moves a vibrating steel tool around in the x and y direction over the surface of a hard object.   This tool is easily programmed using free software on a web page which can be used at a free computer at the public library, and can be used to make carved stone tablets with useful and interesting symbols on them.  Those stone tablets have meaning, more complex than money, not just numbers but which reference various actions in the process of copying our technology( such as the url of a website telling you how to do some practical thing, along with a symbol representing that thing.)  One sits at a location where lots of people pass by, just as with the cardboard sign, but now one doesn't just ask for money but sells interesting and unique art pieces that carry very valuable information. What you do as you sit there engaging passerby is both teach them to replicate every component of your fabrication robot system, how to operate that, and how to replicate your little "business" of setting up your replication station that sells your goods and services.  This will include teaching them how to copy all the software onto new web servers that they set up themselves with your help, salvaging the motors for their own robots, building their own symbolic languages for the stone tablets, etc.  

If this all sounds complicated, don't be surprised.  All the previous examples are extremely complicated, we are just used to hiding complexity.  One can say that a religious scripture simply "self replicates".  But this is an absurd oversimplification: without the vast cultural ecosystem of the religion that backs it up none of this will happen.  And without the biological ecosystem on which the humans rely, they won't replicate and survive and none of it will work either.  Likewise for the branded beverage can, a vast capitalist ecosystem must exist to support both the fabrication of more cans of beverage an the money which consumers put into the system. And again, all this is based on an organic ecosystem.  









