## [link up a level../](../)


# Meta Business


In order to be self-sustaining, a full copy of the information contained here must be able to be used to generate revenue for a team that has learned it.  What are some ways this will happen?

- build local web content for local business which links to the global web, as service for local businesses, barter-based, build flows of commerce in exchange for free stuff from the local businesses 
- build useful web apps, calculators etc and make money on ads on those pages
- make and sell books
- make and sell cardboard box art
- make and sell skeletron furniture artifacts
- make and sell trash robot plotters
- create a custom brand language and deploy it on the internet
- teaching web code as service
- selling geometron painted keyboards
- make and sell custom painted artifacts which act as markers, markers as art
- carved or otherwise processed artifacts made with trash plotter--trash plotter as factory of marketable goods
- mechanical oscillators as a product
- mechanical oscillators built in a class as a service
- basic Arduino class as a service
- every artifact in this system can be made in a class as a service, priced way above what the artifact itself would be sold for, but with the class being self-replicating: students are given the tools to run their own class
- action geometry as a class which makes the Shapes
 

The business model based on self-replicating technology where transmitting the technology is a service people pay for while learning how to also transmit it.  Thus money flows through the system as it exponentially expands.  The system can be thought as a living system that grows, where money always flows in from the edges.  

In the beginning when full topological economics has not been developed, everyone in the network will be trying to survive, trying to make money, so we will all be interfacing with those who are new to the network, trying to expand with as steep an exponential as possible.  This can be *very* fast and can generate a *lot* of money just by the nature of the scaling, as with existing Internet-scaled business. As the system expands and there are fewer people who have not seen this to spread it to, the power of topological economics inside the system will grow, and those deeper in the base branches of the tree will increasingly be able to rely on the new system for survival.  This will involve both increasing the number of networked people and the number of networked self-replicating technological things.

Part of the meta business concept is to evaluate self replicating technologies based on the flow of money into and out of local nodes in the network during replication events.  For instance, a consumer product in the existing economy can easily replicate by someone seeing it and buying another instance of it.  In this case the cost of replication is equal to the price of replication, in the local node, while in the node of the factory that made it presumably there is a net gain in money.  

The ultimate goal of self replicating technology is to replicate without interaction with money at all.  However, in order to expand and thrive before that point we want to evaluate the price of an event and the net value.  The price is the amount of money someone needs at an individual node to make a replication event happen.  The net value is the difference between money generated by the replication and that price.  

As an example we consider the Arduino class.  The Arduino class might cost 120 dollars per person and include a kit that costs 20 dollars for each person.  It takes place at a venue with which we split the revenue 60/40.  So if 10 people sign up for the class, we need to spend 200 dollars on kits, and 1200 dollars comes in from the customers of which we keep 60% which is 720.  Subtract 200 for the kits, rounding up to an extra kit, and the net value of the replication is 500 dollars, but the cost is 200 dollars.  In order for this to be in the Geometron system of self replication the class needs to include the information required that at least in principle the people to take the class can then turn around and teach the same class.  This is not true by default in most howto classes, but if it *is* true, and if each new instance of a class-teaching person can *also* generate that same kind of cash flow, the whole thing can exponentially grow with a *net* flow of cash into the network from people outside the network.  

This Arduino class is a simple prototype which applies to all the organic media products of Geometron and which can be spread exponentially with a positive net value.  At first the positive net value will be driven by a flow of money because we all need it to survive, but we will always try to close loops of flows so that the net value can be positive without money being involved.  Initially, however, what we are building is a vast network of tiny self replicating micro-businesses.  Unlike a normal business there is no centralized "company".  Rather, each node has a small amount of money which acts like "investment capital", a small amount of labor, and a small amount of profit.  After an event, that micro-business effectively starts over on the next instance.  

While individual or group of people work as a team can build something that looks and behaves much like a traditional business, each instance still has the properties of being self contained if it is run according to the principles of our system.  This means we do not buy or rent large fixed infrastructure.  We do not get patents and share all media without use of copyrights or trademarks.  We do not hire permanent employees, including ourselves.  We do not sell equity or take investor capital.  We do not take out business loans.  Everything is not only "bootstrapped" but is granular in that each individual replication event has to have the correct positive sign of net value in order for an event to be in line with the principles of the Geometron meta-business.  

This system of having each element be individually of positive value allows participants in the system to climb up from the lowest priced self replicating elements to much higher value ones in a smooth way without relying on outside investors.  This means that our system can be used by those with almost no resources other than their own labor and the labor of their direct community, which is important if this system is to have a positive impact on society.  Our goal is to be able to allow the poorest and least privileged members of existing society to first climb out of the immediate state of poverty using our system and then build systems which don't use money at all which can provide all their needs both material and non material by expanding our system of self replcicating media into a technological complete set.








