[up to main](../)

# Physical Markers

The networks described here all have physical levels intrinsic to their structure, intertwined with the digital layers. Their primary role in the network is as pointers: links which direct people to their online instances.  The most basic media element is thus just a object with a web address written on it.  To make this self replicating all that is needed is to include a paint men or similar marking tool with it, which can be used to make more markers(we use the term "marker" to refer to this simple pointer to a web page).

Common forms for markers can be a stick with bark shaved off and a flat side carved with a knife, written on with a paint pen, then tied to something in a strategic location.  Or it might be  a bit of trash like a piece of cardboard(back to the cardboard sign from an earlier example, as a prototype organic media element).  When the form of a marker is more sign-like, as with the bigger pieces of flat cardboard, it makes sense to add more information.  This is a chance to add various sub-pages, not just a basic address.  For instance we might place a strategic sign somewhere along a local watershed element like the underside of a bridge, with information on the main watershed domain as well as various sub pages that direct people to the bridge, some history of that spot, and maybe directions for a repository of materials under the bridge shared by people in that watershed, or a factory run from that location.  

In addition to the basic markers which just point to a place in a geographic element which is part of a Watershed or Street network, there are physical media elements which point to parts of Factories.  These are Action Cards.  Action cards are a system of exchange which are similar to how money functions in existing economics but carry more information.  

A 10 dollar bill in existing economic systems is identical to 10 one dollar bills.  It's just numbers, and only the total matters.  Action cards, however, denote actions, actual physical things one does in the process of some Factory operation.  A collection of cards is a deck, which should bring to mind both the phrase "deck of cards" and also "slide deck" as is commonly used in business today.  