## [link up a level../](../)

# Watershed

Having declared our intent to construct a cosmology based on how we want to live rather than on reductionist science, we must now choose where to start.  We begin with how life begins, began and continues: with water.  The watershed is the most fundamental component of our world, in a very literal physical sense, but also in other ways. Water binds us to other living things including each other.  Most of our bodies are made up of water, as well as most living things.  If we try to build a new civilization from scratch the first thing we must do is treat clean water for drinking and waste water for safe disposal and reclamation.

Watersheds are already real, they are already studied, and are already part of our lives.  Watersheds are fractal, much like political bodies, and it is an intent of our philosophy to slowly replace existing political bodies with watersheds in importance.  In our political lives, the fractal structure goes from nation to state or province to county, city, and then smaller divisions that are not generally part of law like blocks and streets.  In the watershed, we start with the ocean which our water drains to(or with the sky from which it falls if we reverse direction of scale propagation.)  We then go to sections of the ocean, e.g. from Atlantic to North Atlantic, then to large bays or gulfs like the Chesapeake Bay.  From there there is usually a major river, like the Patuxent River where this book was written. Generally there is at least one but often several layers of fork from that to the smallest creek, stream or drainage ditch.  For this work, I'm in the Hammond Branch watershed in Little Patuxent, in Patuxent, then Chesapeake, then North Atlantic, then Atlantic.  

Other elements of the watershed are the human artifacts we use to interact with water, such as sinks, toilets, showers, baths, pools, sewers, aqueducts, reservoirs, water treatment plants, water towers, fire hydrants, water mains, water pumps, purifiers and filters, desalination plants, rain collectors, etc.  

What do we do with all this information?  First we learn it.  We build up media about our watershed, just tracing what exists in our own lives, become familiar with what knowledge already exists in society about, it. Then, we build up more information on the watershed we interact with and share that: messages for others in the same watershed, scientific data, shared observations, research, and more and more links between connected parts of the real network of watershed elements(such as streams the feed into one another, bridges on the same stream).  Finally, we teach others how to do this, so that the network of information spreads.  This will be a little bit like a crowd sourced global atlas of all things relating to water: not things like "the wikipedia page on water towers" but things like "the water tower in the middle of Maple Lawn Maryland, along MD route 216 near the park n ride".  

The network consists of both online media and physical media.  Physical media generally consists of objects which can be left outside in the weather which communicate how a place or thing fits into the global atlas of watershed elements via urls or names or symbols or some combination.  The online component is a self-replciating media system, to be more thoroughly documented in a future section, which can be hosted on any web server on the Internet.  Self=replicating means you replicate the pages your "self".  That is, anyone familiar with basic operation of the Watershed network is also familiar with how to teach a new person to replicate it, and this is simple enough that non experts can easily learn it and do it.  Each web page in the Network also is a fractal: it can be forked down to an arbitrary number of sub-layers of heierarchy.  





